we begin in Lebanon where the killing of
a top Hamas official in Beirut is
Raising fears that the Israel Gaza War
could spread the militant group's Deputy
political leader Salah aruri and six
others were killed in the strike on an
apartment building a Lebanon state-run
news agency said the attack was carried
out by Israel the Israeli government for
its part has stopped short of confirming
whether it was behind the
strike the aftermath of a deadly strike
in the heart of Lebanon killing one of
hamas's most senior figures in the
suburbs of Beirut eyewitnesses described
hearing a drone before the
blast at about 5:30 we heard the sound
of an explosion then another explosion
followed by a third blast a few seconds
later there was lots of smoke the
explosion shook our
office Salah aruri was Deputy to hamas's
political leader Ismael Hana and a
founder of the group's military Wing the
alasan brigades Hamas is designated as a
terrorist group by the US and EU among
others and aori was on a US terrorist
list he had spent years in Israeli
prisons at the time of his death aori
was living in Lebanon as hamas's ke
liaison with the Lebanese militant group
Hezbollah aori also headed up 's
presence in the occupied West Bank and
his hometown was rala supporters there
staged a rally in response to news of
his
death so this is not the end and uh if
they killed one of the leaders more
leaders and more uh Palestinian will
take the flag and will continue the
the the fighting against this occupation
Israel has not claimed responsibility
for the strike officials generally do
not comment on operations outside of
Israel and the Palestinian territories
but Israeli officials had previously
vowed to hunt down Hamas leaders
wherever they
are for Lebanon the strike on Beirut is
seen as a violation of its territory the
Lebanese prime minister called it an
attempt to pull his country into
Israel's war with
Hamas Hezbollah and Israel have been
exchanging near daily fire along the
Lebanese Israeli border since the War
Began this strike deep in Lebanese
territory has raised concerns of a major
retaliation from Hezbollah that would
see the war spread far out across
Israel's northern
border DW correspondent Tanya Kramer
joins me now from Jerusalem uh Tanya
Israel has neither confirmed nor denied
that they are behind this attack uh yet
Netanyahu has promised to go after
anyone who was behind the October 7th
attacks why do you think we haven't seen
a clearer statement regarding Israel's
alleged
involvement well you're right Israel has
been very tight lipped about it they
have neither denied nor confirmed the
involvement in this uh killing we only
heard from an official he went as far as
saying that Israel's leadership in the
past uh was known for saying that they
named militants or terrorists um that
who killed Israeli civilians as
legitimate uh targets now we understand
there were some reports in the Israeli
media they had said that um you know
cabinet members and also members of the
knesset the Israeli Parliament were told
not to comment there were a few that had
actually uh commented and congratulated
the security services for a successful
operation but we haven't heard much uh
since there was also speculation that
this uh should not further inflame the
already high tensions uh uh with uh
Hezbollah um
and uh already we heard of course the
Israeli leadership as you rightly said
they have said they will go after the
Hamas leadership not just in Gaza but
wherever there are in other countries
after the uh Terror attacks on October
7th natonia you mentioned those concerns
about a spillover of the Israel Hamas
War Beyond Gaza How concerned are
Israeli citizens that this incident
could lead to an even worse security
situation for
them
well I think there is really uh a lot of
concern and all eyes are also now on a
uh speech by nasan hasala the hollah
leader that was planned ahead much
earlier than what happened yesterday he
will give a speech uh is expected to be
uh in the evening uh tonight um
Hezbollah had said in a statement uh
after the killing that it would not let
this go uh unpunished uh they calling it
a serious assault on Lebanon they also
had talked uh uh much earlier already
about a red line if uh uh leaders of
certain groups that are operating also
that are present uh in Lebanon uh would
be uh assassinated but uh hasah has also
take has to take into consideration of
course the domestic situation we heard
the libanese Prime Minister that Lebanon
should not be dragged uh into uh a war
but there is a lot of concern in Israel
because we've seen very high tensions at
the northern border in Israel with uh uh
South Lebanon uh there have been a lot
of cross B firing a lot of rockets and
then uh also retaliation uh from both
sides so that could spill uh out of
control there's also a lot of talk and
concern by Israelis what all this means
for potential uh indirect negotiations
between uh Israel and Hamas about
releasing more of the Israeli hostages
uh that remain in Gaza so there is a lot
of concern uh that there is a further
escalation Tanya thank you so much for
that that is DW's correspondent Tanya
Kramer in
Jerusalem let's get some analysis here
from Andreas k a Middle East risk analy
analyst and associate professor at Kings
College London uh welcome could you tell
us a little bit about S aruri as a
figure what was his role within Hamas
and how big of a blow will his death
be hi good afternoon I think we we
should be very careful in terms of uh
accrediting one single individual with a
hop uh sort of position where they play
an outsized role in in a in a wider
networked organization he was certainly
important symbolically because he
obviously uh created the fighting wing
of uh of of Hamas certainly must have
been one way or the other involved and
not knowable of what happened on the 7th
of October what was going to happen on
the 7th of October he was a Le on
between Hamas and hisbah and there by
also leers on between Hamas and Iran
which is an important link uh for the
Israelis um that they're trying to sever
problem though is it's never just one
individual so if you take the individual
out here it would be most likely
replaced by another individual and it
would never had actually this sort of
impact I mean none of the assassination
campaigns that Israel has conducted
across the region ever had an a massive
impact on the organizations that they
were trying to weaken well let's take a
quick look at the consequences of his
death you mentioned Hezbollah and it's
of course not just hamas's reaction to
this killing here um the strike killed
aruri in a Hezbollah stronghold in
southern Beirut do you expect that we
would see retaliation from Hezbollah to
his
death yes there will certainly have to
be a response because Hezbollah is under
pressure they have to show that their
deterrence regime is still upheld um
they need to show that they mean
business at the same time Hezbollah has
been very cautious in terms of how they
respond to Israeli aggression and have
also been very careful not to get sucked
into that war directly in Gaza so um so
far this war has been below the
threshold of War so um basically you
know there have been a tit we've seen
these tit fortat responses every
response that hasb has made has been
very measured and Israel has been fairly
measured as well in terms of responding
to his has attacks as well so this one
is an escalation it's an escalation
because it's not a hasah figure that was
killed but it's someone who was under
the protection of Hezbollah who enjoyed
the hospitality of Hezbollah who was
killed in deep inside their territory
it's a great violation also of leban
sovereignty which Hezbollah will have to
respond to the question is just how will
Hezbollah respond because Hezbollah for
many years has kind of and Iran as well
have kind of delayed their responses to
these sort of attacks which means they
do respond that doesn't necessarily mean
they respond immediately the question is
how do they respond because I don't
think Hezbollah still you know has the
appetite for a major escalation it's the
Israelis are playing with fire it seems
that some in Israel might have an
appetite to bring the war to Hezbollah
Hezbollah now will have to find a
measured approach to this but I think
the response will be one that could come
with delay but will be one that would be
far worse than what we've seen so far
coming from Lebanon as in a strike that
will be much deeper inside of Israeli
ter teritory it will be one that
potentially could be a major terrorist
attack within Israel or against Israeli
soft targets also outside of Israel um
but there will have to be a response if
if Hezbollah wants to maintain its
credibility well thank you so much for
joining us on DW news with your
expertise that is Andreas at King's
College London many
thanks